Radiology Information System - User Manual

%%%%  0.Table of Contents  %%%%


0.Table of Contents
1.Installation and Setup
2.Referral Doctor Usage
3.Receptionist Usage
4.Technician Usage
5.Radiologist Usage
6.Admin Usage
7.Supplementary Information


%%%%  1.Installation and Setup  %%%%


Follow the installation instruction in the folder titled "Installation"

After completing the installation steps and booting the system, six (6) default user accounts will be created. One (1) account for each of the 
different user levels (ADMIN, USER, REFERRAL_MD, RECEPTIONIST, TECHNICIAN, RADIOLOGIST):

Username: admin
Password: admin
UserRole: ADMIN

Username: user
Password: user
UserRole: USER

Username: doc
Password: doc
UserRole: REFERRAL_MD

Username: desk
Password: desk
UserRole: RECEPTIONIST

Username: tech
Password: tech
UserRole: TECHNICIAN

Username: radio
Password: radio
UserRole: RADIOLOGIST

By logging into the system as "admin", the user passwords can be set and new user accounts can be created. To do so, login as "admin" and navigate to
the admin dashboard by selecting the "Admin" button on the header navbar. Then navigate to the "Users" data-table, locate the user to be modified and 
select "Modify".

The next step in configuring RIS is to create Patient Alerts and Modalities. Patient Alerts and Modalities vary from office to office depending on 
equipment available and type of imaging. To create Patient Alerts and Modalities, navigate to the Admin Dashboard as before, locate the Patient Alerts
or Modalities data-table, select "New" and enter in the desired Patient Alert of Modality phrase or name.
Note: Patient Alerts will appear in patient records as a drop down with "Yes" or "No" options and will default to "No"

After setting up user accounts and configuring Patient Alerts and Modalities, RIS is configured for office use.


%%%%  2.Referral Doctor Usage  %%%%


To use this RIS as a Referral MD, first begin by logging in as a recognized REFERRAL_MD user.

The Referral MD Dashboard will be presented, listing all orders placed by this user. Individual orders can be viewed by selecting "View". This will redirect 
to the Order Overview page where patient information, order details, imaging files, and diagnostic reports are displayed. By selecting "View Patient Overview",
users can view the complete medical record as cataloged by this RIS including patient demographic information and Patient Alerts.

To place a new order, select "Referrals" in the header navbar to open the Patient Lookup page. Here, patients can be searched for by date of birth, last name, 
or first name. Select "Select" to view the full patient information and then select "Begin Order" to begin the process of placing a new order if the patient 
already exists in the Patient data-table. Otherwise, new patients can be entered into the system by selecting "New" on the upper right corner of the Patients 
data-table. New patient information can be entered including patient identification, patient demographic information, and Patient Alerts. Select "Begin Order" 
to create the new patient and start the process of placing a new order.

From the New Order page, patient identification information is automatically populated into the respective fields. Select "View Patient Overview" to see complete
patient information. In the Order Info section of the New Order page, select a Modality option and enter in important order notes that receptionists, technicians,
and radiologists may need to know. Then select "Submit Order" to place the new order. This will redirect back to the Referral MD Dashboard where order progress can
be checked by locating the Status column of the Place Orders data-table. There are three primary statuses which Referral MD's will be able to view. "Order Placed"
signifies that a new order can been placed, but has not yet been fulfilled by the radiology office. "Imaging Complete" signifies that the radiologist office has
completed the imaging order, but the radiologist has not yet completed the diagnostic report. "Diagnosis Complete" signifies that the imaging order has been completed
and the diagnostic report has been completed.


%%%%  3.Receptionist Usage  %%%%


To use this RIS as a Receptionist, first begin by logging in as a recognized RECEPTIONIST user.

The Receptionist Dashboard will be presented, listing three data-tables: Checked-In Appointments, Today's Appointments, and Unscheduled Orders. Checked-In Appointments
displays the patient, modality requested, date and time of appointment, radiologist assigned, technician assigned, and appointment status. There are two (2) appointment
statuses, "In Progress" and "Concluded". "In Progress" signifies that an appointment is currently underway and that a final diagnostic report has not yet been submitted.
"Concluded" signifies that an appointment is complete and that a diagnostic report has been submitted for the order. Today's Appointments displays the appointment
information for appointments scheduled on this day. Once arrived, patients can be checked-in by selecting "Check-In". This will notify the assigned technician and
radiologist and place the order in the technicians "Checked-In Appointments" data-table. Unscheduled Orders displays placed orders which have not yet had an appointment
scheduled to fulfill the order. By selecting "Schedule Appointment", appointment information can be entered including patient contact info, appointment date and time,
and office info such as assigned radiologist and assigned technician. Additionally, patient identification info is displayed as well as the modality requested. By
selecting "Schedule Appointment" a new appointment is created and the order is removed from the Unscheduled Orders data-table.

To view all appointments in this RIS system, select the "Appointments" button in the header navbar. From here, all appointment information is displayed in the "All 
Appointments" data-table.

To view all orders in this RIS system, select the "Orders" button in the header navbar. From here, general order information is displayed in the "All Orders" data-table.
To view a specific order's complete information, select "View" in an order row to be redirected to the Order Overview page.


%%%%  4.Technician Usage  %%%%


To use this RIS as a Technician, first begin by logging in as a recognized TECHNICIAN user.

The Technician Dashboard will be presented, displaying the "Checked-In Appointments" data-table. Appointment information will be displayed. Select "Complete Order" to
be redirected the Imaging Order page. The Imaging Order page displayed patient identification information, order information and a new section for uploading files.
Select "Choose File" to choose a file on the local machine to upload to this RIS. Then select "Upload" to upload the file. Uploaded files appear below the "Uploaded 
Images" label. By selecting any of the file names listed, the file will download via the web browser to the local machine. By selecting "Complete Order" after all files
have been uploaded, the order is marked as "Imaging Complete" and is placed in the radiologist's "Review Imaging Orders" data-table.

To view all appointments in this RIS system, select the "Appointments" button in the header navbar. From here, all appointment information is displayed in the "All 
Appointments" data-table.


%%%%  5.Radiologist Usage  %%%%


To use this RIS as a Radiologist, first begin by logging in as a recognized RADIOLOGIST user.

The Radiologist Dashboard will be presented, displaying the "Review Imaging Orders" data-table. General order information will be displayed. Select "Review Order" to
be redirected to the Diagnostic Report page. Patient identification information, order information and file uploads are displayed, as well as a new section for 
composing a diagnostic report based on the modality imaging. Once the diagnostic report is completed, select "Complete Report" to finalize the order and set the order
status to "Diagnosis Complete". This will remove the order from the radiologist's "Review Imaging Orders" data-table.

To view all appointments in this RIS system, select the "Appointments" button in the header navbar. From here, all appointment information is displayed in the "All 
Appointments" data-table.

To view all orders in this RIS system, select the "Orders" button in the header navbar. From here, general order information is displayed in the "All Orders" data-table.
To view a specific order's complete information, select "View" in an order row to be redirected to the Order Overview page.


%%%%  6.Admin Usage  %%%%


To use this RIS as an Admin, first begin by logging in as a recognized ADMIN user.

By default, all RIS dashboards will be displayed on the landing page, included Referral MD Dashboard, Receptionist Dashboard, Technician Dashboard, and Radiologist 
Dashboard. All specified dashboard options will be made available to Admin's, however, data-table which show only information assigned to certain users will still
only be made visible to those specified users. This means that Admin users will only be able to see orders placed by that Admin user or orders assigned to that Admin
user.

To view the Admin Dashboard, select "Admin" in the header navbar to redirect to the Admin Dashboard page. The Admin Dashboard page displays all tables and data used
in this RIS. Data-table which are displayed include: System Users, Modalities, Patient Alerts, Patients, Orders, Appointments, File Uploads, and Diagnostic Reports.
All data-table data can be modified by selecting "Modify" on the respective data-table row. New rows can be created by selecting "New" in the upper right corner of
any given data-table.


%%%%  7.Supplementary Information  %%%%

Users which do not have a specified role assigned will be defaulted to USER. USER user accounts do not have access to any parts of this RIS and are displayed a short
message on the Home page (Also called [UserRole] Dashboard) stating to contact this RIS admin to have an UserRole assigned.

The header navbar displayed the currently logged in user in the top right next to the Logout button.

All data-table are searchable to any data in any column.

File Uploads are automatically encrypted on upload and decrypted on download. They are stored locally in this RIS application's root directory.